2.3.W – SEND
The whole morning had been a flurry of getting to know the Sherman Station folk.
“Why did you take so long between arriving and coming, child?” one of the Bibis asked her.
[Child,] Toby teased.  Their in-joke, borrowed from Aunt Gwen.
“I-” Winnifred started, and stumbled mentally over Toby’s tease and not having a great, honest answer.  “It’s my first time being away from Griffey Docks.  I wanted to take it in.”
“Aren’t you precious.”  Said like a statement.
Hale was the same way, making comments that were hard to judge.
It wasn’t the first time she’d been lightly admonished for taking so long between arriving and meeting them, and she could deflect that stuff, but it wasn’t helping the feeling that was settling over her.  That she was a fish out of water.  The attention they paid to her and their welcome made it worse, not better.
Or maybe she just felt extra self conscious, because there was an investigator who hadn’t let up with the constant observation.  Watching her over her shoulder.
“Watch that Hale,” the Bibi told her.  “I have a connection to that one, so I can tell you that.”
“I don’t know what-” she started.  But two other adults were calling over the grey-haired Bibi.
She looked at history and records, trying to track genealogy and relationships, and couldn’t make head or heels of it.  If it turned out that there was an ongoing joke and she was beating a record that had stood for a century or something, in not getting it, then she would be more relieved than upset.  At least then something would make more sense.
[They aren’t groups of families in the same way we are over at Griffey Docks,] Toby said, both answering her confusion and resuming a conversation they’d started after Winnifred had woken up and saw Hale with some of his relatives.
After that, she’d been distracted by the gorilla Crank, and by Kathe asking questions.  The criminal Sattersfield had nursed a coffee like he was recovering from a hangover, from the far end of the table.
Then, not long after Hale had dragged her out, with promises of secret plans, he’d been called away for questions. Crank was supposed to catch up, but with Hale pulled away and Crank not there yet, she was on her own at the fringes of a gathering of the Sherman Station folk.
“Yeah.  Not the same.”
[Leilani gave birth to Hale, but Kaia and Lane raised him until he was eight.  Then he was raised by Old Hero.  Because they were busy with work and he was acting out.  One conversation and he started living somewhere else.  That’s three different family units.]
“Almost one big, loose overfamily.”
“Exactly right,” a girl said, joining the conversation as if she’d been a part of it from the start.  Lane – named after the Lane that had raised Hale, but in no way related to her.  She was about Winnifred’s age, like a few here, which was nice, narrower than most dock folk, and she’d clipped a hair band to the mods at her lower face, pushing her mane of hair back rather than comb it.  “If you wanted to join that overfamily, it would suit you.”
“Do you think so?” Winnifred asked.
“That’s what people say,” Lane said.  She was a deft hand at working with her onboard, and they pulled up three conversations that referenced that very subject, in the time it took her to say the sentence.
[The fact you keep to your own is one of the first things people learn about you, when they talk among themselves.  Not that I think there’s anything wrong with it, but-]
Winnifred sighed.
[-yes.  Sigh.]
“It’s fine,” Lane told Winnifred, laying a clawed hand on Winnifred’s upper arm.  She had a grapple mount for zero-G navigation and safety on her arm, making her hand a bit heavier than Winnifred’s would be.  “You’re fine.  What I came to ask, was if you wanted to come race skimmers?  We’re heading over in twenty, so you have time to eat, wash if you want it, even, and wrap up anything you’re doing.”
“I-” Winnifred flailed for a second.  “I came here with instructions to step out of my comfort zone, say yes to anything, but-”
“We build our own,” Lane said.  “I thought it might tickle your engineer pickle.”
“It does tickle- engineer pickle?” Winnifred sounded out the words even as she said them.  “I don’t know if I see myself as an engineer, exactly, but Hale already asked me to come with him, and not to pry about what.”
[A surprise,] Toby elaborated.
“I won’t interfere with that, then,” Lane said.  It was clear she had zero patience for the surprise, and was immediately checking what Hale was up to.  Hale had asked Toby to help keep the secret, Winnifred had okayed it.  But now Winnifred had to avoid glancing at what Lane was up to through Lane’s eyes.
That wasn’t helping the feeling a big prank was being played on her.
“Ask me again for next time?” Winnifred asked.
“I’ll drag people out there myself if I have to, so let me know when you’re free,” Lane said.  She bumped her shoulder into Winnifred’s.  “Don’t let Hale and his friends do too much damage.”
“Damage?’
Hale was already messaging Lane, telling her off, and Lane backed off, moving on all fours for the initial speed, before switching back to using her legs.  “Good luck.”
Hale broke away from the conversation with his relative and messaged Winnifred while he jogged over.  “Crank is slow to get moving.  Um.  Food?  Wash?”
Winnifred nodded.
Sherman Station was large enough that they had folk covering roles that a lot of other places didn’t.  With everyone being evicted from the actual dock portion of the station, they’d diffused out, but it seemed like there were efforts to gather.
Winnifred didn’t need or want to wash her hair, and Toby could do basic management of that, but there was a station where some were getting their hair tended to and washed, with optional braiding.  Some of the folk there had hands with rubbery, non-clawed fingers, made of synthetic skin.  It was a strange picture, body so modded, hands so ordinary.  Like wearing a modded mouthpiece at one’s lower face, then having synthetic lips at the end.  But hands.
One that looked very tired, maybe because of how early in the morning it was, had light skin, which was interesting.  It made Winnifred think of A.
She wanted to chill out and go back to watching ships landing and taking off, from a nice vantage point, no sabotage, no strangeness, no pressure, no investigator watching over her shoulder.
The hair-washer with non-clawed fingers had noticed Winnifred looking.  She raised a synthetic hand with its rounded fingers, in the lowest effort wave possible.  Not even sending a message.
Winnifred did something similar in response, from afar, but she was further disconcerted by the idea that synthetic skin was frequently used for genitals, it took the already strange image of folk with fingers and made it seem obscene.
[I bet I know what you’re thinking,] Toby told her.
“Hush.”
“This way,” Hale told her, as he reached her side.  “Crank is coming.  So is Kathe, which might be an issue.  We’ll see.”
“Issue?”
“Nope!” he said, seemingly happy.  “We arrived before the crush of people.  Let’s use the fact we have someplace to be to get out of here quick, or you’ll get caught up in aunties, uncles, and bibis wanting ‘a short conversation’.  Ten of those conversations and it will be midday.”
“I know that type.”
She grabbed a seaweed and salmon pack, because it was one that was uncommon back home, and touched the nozzle to her face mask.
[Don’t throw away the pack.  Let me know when you’re done,] Toby said.
“Why?”
[You’re burning more calories than usual.]
“Is that a thing?”
[More brain activity.  New place, I think.  There will be a shortfall.  After three or four days, we may grab a third meal for the day.]
“Or you will get used to this place and burn less,” Hale interjected.  He’d grabbed the same pack, but he’d also grabbed a nozzle of alcohol, which he slipped into his toolbelt.
“Done,” Winnifred told Toby, after she was done swallowing.
[Put it back for another use?]
“Can you?” she asked.
The answer was yes, but with recycled water and saliva flushing the inside of the packet, to get maybe another five percent of product out.  She scrunched up her eyes and forehead.
[Sorry.  But it’s efficient. If you spend time in space, you’ll want to do that to conserve resources.]
“It’s not as if we use many,” she pointed out.
[But it’s not a bad idea either.]
“Not a bad idea, no,” Hale said.  “But if you are telling her to do that because you don’t want to be a rude guest, don’t.  Take what you need.”
[Alright, thank you.]
Winnifred was still a little disgruntled the meal had been lightly spoiled.
[Sorry.]
“It’s okay, love,” she told Toby.
“Love,” Hale noted, out loud.  He searched her history, barely missing a beat before adding, “Oh, inside joke?”
“Not a joke.  Toby has always been there for me.”
Hale laughed at that.  He had a demeanor to him where it didn’t feel mean spirited and he laughed easily, but it was also a little disconcerting to say ‘not a joke’ and get a robust laugh in return.
“He’s already dragging you away.  Are you fitting in?  Is there anything you need?” an auntie from Sherman Station messaged her.
“I’m alright, thank you,” Winnifred said.
“Or would you like a guide for your time here that isn’t Hale?” a young auntie sent.  She was beside the older bibi who had talked to Winnifred a couple minutes back.
“Auntie Dali!” Hale protested.
“He’s doing well,” Winnifred said, not sure if it was a joke or not.
“He was such a troublemaker.  Don’t let him get you into the sort of trouble he was in a few years ago.”
“Yes, auntie.”
“No more messages, you’ll bombard her, and she’ll want her wits about her,” Hale told them.
They, mercifully, stopped sending the messages from afar.
“Is this dangerous?”  She asked.  “Your surprise?”
“We’ll see!”
A part of her wondered if her nervousness around Hale was because he, superficially, resembled Noeh, from Murphy Court, who was now unofficially with Keeley, Winnifred’s closest cousin.  Noeh, who had set off the spark that had started this whole confrontation over the docks.
Both had a boisterous, adventurous, too-carefree nature.
“I was checking your old messages and conversations,” Hale explained.  “I thought this might appeal to you.”
It sure looked like they were traveling to the Sherman Station docks, which the Folk had been restricted from, pending legal resolution.
“It seems like a lot of people are trying to find things that appeal to me.  I’m fine visiting, seeing how you do things.  You don’t need to go to special effort.”
“But it’s fun to, you’re interesting and new.  Let people distract themselves.  Things are feeling bleak, and we’d rather focus on the good.”
“Bleak because of the conflict over the docks and where the folk can live?”
“That’s a conversation for later.  We’re in impolite company,” Hale said.  “Here, around this corner, your surprise.”
The impolite company was a few more modded people, including two gorillas, three more folk from Sherman Station who could well have been Hale’s cousins, and four very athletic looking people.  Laborers, by the looks of it.  They were mostly guys, but one of the folk was a very lithe, long limbed member of Sherman Station’s folk, a woman two years older than Hale, and one of the laborers was a woman with a shaved head.
The surprise, as Winnifred took it, was a ship that had been moved off the docks.  She rose from all fours to a standing position, to see more of it without the people in the way.  It was a Wrest Return.
She circled around the group, giving them nods of acknowledgement and a brief, “Hi,” before turning her focus to the ship.
“Oh, you’re going straight there,” Hale said.
“Can I?” she asked, twisting her upper body one hundred and eighty degrees.  “Can I approach it?  Touch it?”
“You can. It’s ours.  Climb all over it.  Scratch your name into it, if you want.”
“I wouldn’t do that.  The Wrest was one of the early designs, when space flight became more accessible to the masses.  The Wrest Return is a historic second edition.  The first proper Wrests flew their ships out, bringing the equipment and facilities to make more ships, gathered and processed all the material, built a whole fleet of ships on-planet, flew them back.  The ones that came back earned the ‘Return’ designation.”
She ran a claw lightly over the outside.  “It had been special, once upon a time, made almost entirely of metal from another planet.  Until the accidental ‘visit’ from the Inui, it was the closest humanity came to getting visitors from the stars, but it’s also ours in a special way.  Did you know all- no, most Wrests were made robust, with core technology that was easy to swap in and out, space in the walls.  Garage modders love them.”
So do smugglers.
“We call it The Football.  It’s the Wrest on paperwork only.  I’ve never heard anyone call it anything different.”
“Yeah!” Winnifred responded.  “Football.  They call it that.  It’s shaped like one from the sport games.”
Fat at the middle, tapering at either end.  The exterior paneling was rough and clearly plug-in-and-fly aesthetic, with wire bundling on the outside, in places, threading out to where communication and landing gear were installed.  Many of the less important panels doubled as mounts for g-sails.  That would be a newer addition.
“They were worried about muscle atrophy and bone quality on long space flight, so you had two-tier rotational force.  It flies in a spiral, and the center body rotates on its own,” she remarked.  “Crew of six hundred?  Usually-”
“Less,” Hale said, at the same time as her.
“You don’t get ships like this anymore.  Robust, modular design, capable of standing the test of time.  Nowadays you get durability, sometimes, but it’s mainly for a single purpose.  If you want to tug something, you get an Ancon, or a Mortise.  If you want to haul, you get a Kyte, a Hod, or a Geotan.  Only about half of the Wrests out there are in use nowadays, but the fact they still see use, as general purpose workhorses…”
“Even for the ones in use, they’re projects,” Hale said.
“Oh, for sure.  But the fact they last like they do… meaningful.  Beautiful.”
[Objectively ugly.]
“But beautiful in its ugliness,” Winnifred countered.
“You know, as happy as I am that you’re enjoying the ship, it isn’t why I brought you here.”
Winnifred blinked a few times in rapid succession.  She turned, pacing a few times, to put herself a rough equal distance from everyone and everything -Football included- present.  So she could assess everything anew.
“You were talking to Toby yesterday about wanting to get to know people from more walks of life.”
“Oh.”  The people.
“Yeah, uh.  I thought they’d be good people to get to know.  They’ve said they’re open to any questions about the work, any of that.  And I figured we could play a game while you decide what to ask.”
“She said the words ‘sports games’, so she can be on your side,” one of the laborers said.  “No offense.”
Winnifred blinked.
Hale was undeterred.  “We won’t make winning and losing a big deal.  Surprise is up, so you can have Toby show you the ropes, if she wants to skim my records and put together a presentation.”
[It’s a bit rough and tumble,] Toby warned.
“It’s good practice for how to think and act in a crisis situation,” one of the other folk said, putting on a voice.  Winnifred was pretty sure he was doing a voice, anyway.
Toby supplied the game rules.
The main hallway of the Wrest was their field, initially set to be entirely still.  It was forty-five point seven five feet across, and one hundred and fourteen point three meters in circumference, looping back on itself.  The goals were twenty four meters apart, both toward the bottom, with the curve of hallway between them meaning there wasn’t a straight shot or easy view from one goal to the other.  Locked in position.
Two balls were in play, and one class R storage container, which was a cube two and a half meters across on each side, heavy metal.
Hale tossed the ball from one hand to the other.  “Get the ball through the goal, the floor starts rotating in your favor.  More goals, more rotation speed.  Get the storage container through the goal, your team wins.”
It was just big enough and heavy enough that it would be inconvenient for anyone who wasn’t a walking, modded-up piece of heavy machinery.
“Most of the gameplay takes place around the goals, but you do have the option of going the whole circuit around, which can give you a stray ball, if there’s a recent one, and you can turn off g-sails there,” Hale explained.  “Er, G-floors.  It’s new enough we don’t have an established meta.  We eyeball teams, give the meat-and-bones tools.  Some tools to folk.”
[The ‘meta’ is a term for the game-in-the-game, often referring to the strategies and resulting counter-strategies employed, beyond the base rules Hale just explained.]
“I know, goober.”
[It’s been a hot minute, I wasn’t sure you’d recall.  And who’s a goober, talking about ships when Hale is trying to introduce you to people?  Goober.]
Winnifred laid a hand on her chest, under the spoiler, on the panel near where her heart would be.  She liked when Toby paid attention, and engaged like that.
Hale went over the rules while they waited for Crank and Kathe.
They entered the ship to get a better look at the layout, and how the goals were setup.  Hale tossed one of the two balls between hands.  The storage container was already inside.
G-floors all throughout the central concourse.
“What did they do to you?” Winnifred asked.
Hale laughed.  “This was supposed to be a good thing, now you’re making me feel bad.”
“The nice thing about these old pieces of work is they’re modular,” one of the gorillas told her.  “Easy to change back.”
It still felt weird, calling them that, but from what she’d overheard between Crank and Hale, it was the go-to here.
“That does make me feel better.”
“So, engineer and you like ships,” the woman with the shaved head said.
“I guess, and yeah.  Less engineer, more… knowing how it all works is a means to an end.”
“Goals of becoming a captain, Hale told us.”
“Yeah.”
“Never met a happy captain,” one of the other folk said.
“Give me a ship, space, and crew to keep things going, I can’t imagine not being happy,” Winnifred said.  “It’s odd that people know me and I don’t know you.”
“There’s time to get to know them.  You’re here on Sherman Station for a while.  Do you think you can imagine yourself playing?” Hale asked.  “It can be a little rough and tumble, but we wanted a game where people with different mods could go all out.”
“I-”
[You were told to try things, say yes to things.]  Toby used the ship’s systems to speak at a normal volume, for the group.
“Well, aren’t you pushy today, Toby?” she asked.  “Yeah.  I’ll try.  Can’t promise I’ll be good.  Can I do a circuit of the track?  Field?”
“Are you doing a circuit because you want to know the playing field or because you want to geek out about the ship?” Hale asked.
She considered, looking up the hallway, that curved, gently uphill in both directions.  “Both?”
“Go.”
She did her tour, asking some questions along the way.  Could she use the side corridors?  As a hiding place?
No luck.  Shame.  That felt against the spirit of a game made by a member of the twenty-nine families.
Was there a way to use consoles?  Turn G-drives on or off?  Yes, one of the tools they let the ‘flesh and bones’, as they’d been called, let them do that.  But be careful.
Crank and Kathe arrived, and Hale began asking if Kathe could even participate.  She couldn’t easily run, with the mods along her back, and he checked her depth perception by tossing her a ball.  She caught one on her second try.
But inclusion and a mix of players was the name of the game, and Hale, being the one to bring them, was put on their team.
Hale, Winnifred, Crank, Kathe, one of Hale’s friends and relatives, and one modless worker.  On the other side, one gorilla, three folk, two people without mods.
The moment the game started, the two opposing gorillas went straight for the storage container.  They collided with a force that made the entire ship shake and a warning sensor sound off.  Toby supplied the information that it was about the landing gear kicking in, a good warning to have if heavily mined environments could collapse, crumble, or suffer a mudslide.
It wasn’t beyond their ability to lift it, but the dimensions and lack of easy places to grab the container made it trickier.  Maybe if they were completely alone, without other things going on, they could get good holds on the corners.  As it was, it was more a tug of war.  Or wrestling between modders that had gone for pure size and pure muscle, with an awkward metal container they had to mind, usually kept between them.
Hale and his friends were better at handling the ball.  There were two in play, and there weren’t many rules for how to handle it, except that if two people put their hands on it, the one who was closer to their own goal got it, and if nobody had hands on it for long enough, a little cleaning bot would try to scoot it into an alcove, and another would be supplied at the place in the ring furthest from the goal.
The other team practically ignored Winnifred’s, passing between them, approaching the goal.  They frequently bounced off a wall to get the ball past a player.  Past Winnifred.
One goal was quickly scored against them, and the floor began to slowly move.
Winnifred didn’t have that prowess, awareness, or comfort with ducking and moving around the ongoing tug of war over the small storage container, which Crank was now ever so slowly losing, not helped by the fact he wasn’t practiced at this.  She could feel Hale’s exasperation.
Kathe had immediately ducked off, too, circling around to the back.  It was possible to get around to the far side of things, close to the goal, and with luck, even get a stray ball.  It left them a player down.
In reality, though, the ball didn’t sit unclaimed for long.  The people without mods liked using the grapples, and one of the folk on that team was very good at turning off the g-floors so that things would roll toward the center, when convenient.
Metal slammed metal as Crank pushed the storage cube off to one side, trying to grab for a leg, to lift it and topple the other gorilla.
The other guy knew what he was doing, and toppled Crank instead.  He began pushing, covering a lot of ground.
Winnifred turned off the floor, which bought three seconds where the gorilla had to fight to get uphill, and gave Crank a chance to grab on, pulling the guy backward.
While she was distracted with that, the other team scored again.  The floor began moving with more force.
“Have to give the ball to the cleaning robot,” Winnifred whispered to Hale.  “Kathe is waiting.”
The trick, as she saw it, was that if someone was on the far side of the ring, they had to decide: did they send the ball toward the back of the opposing goal, with the idea it would be close enough for an opportunist to score, risking giving the enemy possession, or vice versa?
The entire ship rattled as the two gorillas went at it.  A ball bounced off the wall, over Winnifred’s head, toward one of Hale’s friends, and she quickly hit the button, to turn off the g-sail.
Altering trajectory.
She was able to catch up to the ball at the same time Hale’s cousin did, and she got possession.
She feigned passing it to Hale, then dropped it.
The player who she’d just been fighting over the ball with reversed direction.  She dashed toward them, using her body to block them.  They tried to leap over, she raised herself up, and they clacked together.  They put a claw down, almost somersaulting, before dropping into a crouch.
It bought that extra needed second.  The unattended ball was scooped up by the little robot, and Kathe, high ‘above’ them, for a certain meaning of the word, was given possession.  If nobody had been up there, it’d just fall through and drop to the center, down here.
She expected Kathe to use her extra senses to keep aware of players and make a shrewd call about where to send it.  She was a bit disappointed to see the g-floors turn off, floor platforms going from bright lime white to a dark gray, and to hear the clatter of noise echoing down the hall as Kathe came from that direction.  Was there any point in giving up possession, if she’d just end up here, next to her?
The clatter, however, was a ruse.  Kathe had shucked off a boot.  It slid down the steep sloped surface, making a noise very much like running footsteps.
Kathe came down the other side, behind the other goal.  She had the grapple, and kept it attached to the ball, firing it through, reeling it in, firing it through-
Six shots before someone else fired a grapple at the ball, caught it, and got possession.
“That’s cheap.”
“Is it against the rules?” Kathe asked.
Hale seemed to like that.  He laughed.
“I’ve been saying for a while, there should be more reward for looping around the far way,” the unmodded woman with the shaved head said.  “Otherwise, it feels like it favors the faster modders, leaves the rest of us behind.”
There was a bit of discussion.  Winnifred didn’t feel like she had a place in it- not enough investment in the game, not enough experience playing.
Still.
Even with a four-speed shift in the floor rotation, and the one trick on Kathe’s part, they were two amateurs -Crank had played before- against people who had experience.
Winnifred thought of A, and how A had come up with brilliant strategies, and felt disappointed that in the crush of the moment, nothing had come to her.
She’d just been assist, getting the ball to Kathe, passing as best as she could, so Hale could make shots, throwing the ball to the hoop.
The other side negated their advantage, then scored one more time, shifting the floor against Winnifred’s team again.  Then one of the meat-and-bone laborers, tired, tripped on a slight gap between the floor panels, fell, and tumbled down the slope.  Everything had to be put on pause.
Considering the injuries when everything was being played in a relatively confined space with two gorillas wrestling, and a moving floor?  Not the worst injury possible.
[Rinse your head?] Toby asked.  [You’re overheating.  I could have you perspire, but if we’re doing that-]
“Might as well use water.  Taking a minute.”
“Sure,” Hale said.  “I was thinking we’d take a seat up top, look out over the docks, grab some water and a snack, later.”
“You eat three times a day?” Winnifred asked.
“I’m thinking of these other guys.”
She nodded.  “Okay.  Later, then.”
“The bleeding isn’t too bad,” Hale’s long-limbed friend commented.  Her mask didn’t favor normal speech much at all, distorting her voice.  Some Folk liked that.  “But most of the time when we bleed, it’s a scalp wound, and those apparently bleed more.  I don’t know how to judge an unmodded’s bleeding.”
“Can you rats please shove off with those casual observations?” the injured man asked.  “I’m not something to study and interpret.”
“If you had an onboard, we’d know exactly how hurt you are.”
“Shove.  Off.  And I’m putting off getting that shit as long as I can.”
Winnifred left the conversation behind, and stepped outside.  The light that came through the domed ‘ceiling’ of the station had a faint prism tint to it, casting different areas of the station in different hues.  That only happened at certain times, allowing for orbits, rotation, and distance from the sun.  It was red outside, and would be for a couple of hours.
The gorilla who’d sat out on the game was sitting out there.  “What do you need?”
“A moment to gather thoughts.  Water.”
“The water’s-” he started.  But she knew, and was already turning the tap.  She leaned over the ramp, and used the water to rinse her head and upper face.  If the ship was on a planet, and water wasn’t in tight supply, it could be a way to get the mud off before coming in.
She guessed she’d spent twenty cumulative hours, since she was knee-high, looking at models, simulations, and schematics of ships.  Wrests were in the top fifteen of the ones that had grabbed at her attention.
“How many hours have I spent looking at Wrests?  Ranked, compared to the rest?  Simulations, whatever.”
[Wrests, compared to the rest?]
Winnifred rolled her eyes.
[I’d have to do an audit for a firm number, but eighty-two hours of your life, between models, playing games, you liked me to generate stories about one, once.]
“Didn’t remember that.  Eighty, wow.”
[Sixth place.  Probably higher, if you discount time spent looking at schematics for hods while working on them.]
“It is very nice to finally meet you in person,” she told the ship, whispering so the gorilla outside wouldn’t think she was crazy.  Or talking to him.  “I’m sorry for what they’ve done to you.”
The hulk of metal didn’t respond.
“Imagine owning one, one day,” she told Toby.  “And I could have you also double as the ship’s system.  The ship could be an extension of both of us.”
[Is that how you see me?] Toby asked.  [Old, awkwardly put together, fat around the middle, trying to keep moving in a straight line while spinning around like a lunatic?]
“Be nice to her, Toby.  She’s already been abused so.”
She could still hear bits of the conversation inside.
“You know ‘rats’ is a slur?  Other folk from the twenty-nine families would want to fight you if you said it.”
“No shit?”
The cold water helped ease a mild headache that had started to mount.  She wondered if she needed to food calories, for the rest of the headache.  When she was done, water streaming from hair to the metal of her body, she took a moment to admire the ship.  It wasn’t small, by any measure.
“Can we have a conversation?”
The message came through, pushed past Toby’s usual procedures and categories.
The investigator.
“I’m Investigator Carlen Holder, I’m lead investigator for a company that spans multiple settled worlds in the belt, servicing several affected docks and stations, and many related industries.  I’d like a word.  Thank you.”
The timing of the message had that cadence to it, like someone who expected to have that slight delay due to message lag.
“Depends,” Winnifred responded.  “Should I loop my family’s lawyer into this conversation?”
“I’m working on another project, but you caught someone’s eye, Winnifred of Griffey Docks, and I was asked to look into things.  I’ve been watching you.”
“I noticed,” Winnifred replied.
[She did not answer the question.]
Hale and some of the others had stopped what they were doing.  Hale stood near the open doorway, watching Winnifred, but not interjecting.
“You’ve been near two instances of property damage.  The inciting incident at Griffey Docks, and you were one step removed from damage to a privately owned aircraft in private airspace.”
“One step removed?” Winnifred asked.
“You were near a tenure that later guarded that same airstrip.”
“She was near a lot of ships,” Hale said.  “We’re folk, it’s normal.”
“Hale?” Winnifred asked, twisting around.  “Give me a sec?”
“Ah.  Yeah.”
“I’m preoccupied with other things.  Everyone working with the judiciary is,” the investigator told her.  “You aren’t a concern right now, but that can change.  Have a word with me, reassure me my suspicions amount to nothing, and I can write this off and move on.”
“I have nothing to say.”
“If there is exculpatory evidence or testimony and you do not choose to cite it now, it will likely count against you, especially if this goes to judicial systems for autoresolution.”
“I know.  You should know I know, if you look at my history.  I still have nothing to say.”
“I’m aware that you know and were educated.  In fact, the fact you were advised by peers and relatives of your ‘cultural group’ is something that could also count against you, if this goes to judicial autoresolution.  If family is established as a potential criminal element that has told you not to work with judicial services, and you are knowingly consorting with them, that isn’t to your benefit.”
Some of the other folk who were hanging back and following the conversation were visibly bristling.
It’s also not much of a penalty, is it?  Winnifred thought.  Scare tactics and prejudice.
It was enough to make her more aware of the mounting pressure, though.
Toby was managing her emotions, so she stayed level.  That probably counted against her too.  Onboards managing emotions could count against a person, but would never be to their benefit, she guessed.
“I have nothing to say.”
“This could have been a nice conversation, that cleared my slate, further cleared you, and moved things along.”
“I really doubt that.  You’re angling to say something to contrive to put the blame on me, or on our people, so you have your scapegoat.  I don’t for one second believe you’re genuine.”
Winnifred glanced toward Carlen Holder, in her display.  She tried to look for other ‘nice conversations’.
Blocked, under judicial seal.
[If we file a dispute, we can look at redacted versions of her work history.]
“I really don’t care,” Winnifred said.  “But thank you, Toby.”
“Many people care,” Investigator Holder replied.  “It’s in everyone’s interest to resolve this sooner.”
“Is it?” Hale asked.
Winnifred glanced over her shoulder at him, drawing her eyebrows down.
He put a clawed hand to the ‘mouth’ portion of his face mask.
“It is.  If we get a handle on the wider terrorism question and onboard adoption crosses the tipping point, where it’s mandatory everywhere, I’ll be returning to this investigation with a team.  You don’t want my full attention, Winnifred of Griffey Docks.”
“You’ve been watching me for over twenty-four hours based on an apparent hunch.  Aren’t you already?”
The investigator didn’t reply.  Winnifred was annoyed she was blocked from looking, to see what the investigator was up to.  Was she distracted by something else?  Navigating menus?
“Okay, um,” Winnifred was a bit lost for words.  “You seem busy.  If there’s a need, I suppose we can talk another time.  I’ll message you, or you message me if things change?”
[Or we put this nonsense aside,] Toby supplied.
“There’s no need to put this conversation to rest.  I’m preoccupied at this moment, but if you have a moment, and I have a moment, I can ask the question.  We’ll talk more, over the next few days, weeks if necessary.  I’ll message you.”
“I don’t think I’ll have anything more to say.”
“Then your silence can speak for you.”
The conversation seemed to end there.  In a way.  In another way, it was just… pending.  Hanging over her, now.
“So,” Hale said.  He stood tall, leaning against the open doorway.  Winnifred sat on the ramp.  “What do you want to do?”
“I like your game, but I might not be in the mood for it.”
“Do you want to sit?” he asked.  He pointed up.
She nodded.
Really, if she had a choice, she’d unwind with only Toby for company, listening to A’s music.  Asking for that might be seen as weakness, and it might be seen as rude.
They sat or lay across the slope of the tapered end of the ‘football’, which put them close enough to the ground that the gorillas could stand or sit on the storage containers nearby and talk to them.
Maybe because sitting was more uncomfortable for her than standing, Kathe stood a bit behind and above the rest of them, awkwardly slouched, hands in the little single pocket at her lower belly.
Sitting wasn’t really rest, anyway, if one’s body was modded, and Kathe had light mods running through much of her body.  She’d taken off her other boot to match the one she’d thrown aside, and there was a band of metal running down the side of her leg, to the protrusion of the ankle, to foot.
If you didn’t have legs that got tired, then you could stand all the time.  The gorillas were like that.  Kathe and the other modded were too.
Some of the unmodded were pulling off shirts, laying them carefully below them before ‘sunbathing’, for lack of a better word.  Enjoying the circulated air that was vaguely breeze-like, maybe.
“You handled that better than I would have,” the gorilla who’d been outside said.
“Thank you,” Winnifred said.  “There’s nothing really to handle.  It’s nonsense.”
“So you’re here to find a marriage partner?”
“Are you interested, Thornton?” the bald woman called down.  She lay topless on the ship’s roof, arms outstretched overhead, eyes closed.
“She’s folk,” Hale said.  “Member of the twenty-nine families.  Out of the running for you, Thornton.”
“Some families have members that marry people from the outside out,” Winnifred said.  It was hard to act casual when the investigator was watching.  Toby regulated her emotions, but couldn’t regulate thinking and thought spirals.
“Your uncle left,” Hale said.  “Married an outsider.  Isn’t right.  Culture’s dying.  This fight that’s happening right now might be the last of it.”
“You think they’ll come and wipe you out?” the bald woman asked.  “Kill you to the last?”
The tone didn’t sound serious.
“No.  They’ll divide us, take our home from us, and scatter us.  Mark my words, before this is done, they’ll put rules in place.  Making it so we can’t mod our children.  That’s the… the crack, that becomes a fissure, that becomes a chasm we can’t cross.”
None of the others volunteered anything.
“Question for the others,” Kathe said.
“Who’s ‘other’?” Hale asked.
“Unmodded.  Gorillas.  If you met the love of your life, but they were from one of the families, a family that accepts outsiders, lets you in… would you get modded?  Become one of the folk?”
“It doesn’t really work that way,” Hale said.
“I know it doesn’t.  But I’m asking.  And I’m asking… if you had a child, would you mod them?  To have the love of your life?”
“To have culture,” one of Hale’s guy friends said, sitting up.  “Traditions.  Stories.  A language.”
“That too,” Kathe said, unfazed by the rising emotion.  “But I’m curious.”
“Kathe, honey, I don’t know you,” the bald woman said.  “But I know folk, and I know that’s a minefield.  Even asking, any answer that isn’t ‘yes, I’d mod my child’ will piss some of them off so bad they won’t talk to us again.  So fuck you for asking.”
“Mm.”
“Rhone-” Hale started.
“And I’d mod my kid, and mod myself.  But if I did it, I’d go all in, do something interesting and a bit new.”
“Enh,” one of Hale’s friends grunted, in response.  From the look around Hale’s eyes, he had feelings that matched that disgruntled, dissatisfied sound.
“Culture is dying.  It might die in our lifetimes,” the long-limbed member of Hale’s friend group said.  The only other female folk present who wasn’t Winnifred.  “We’ve seen the exploration die.  We’ve seen nations die.  Scarcity died.  Economy died.  Creativity, run through with cancer and killed.”
“Not quite dead,” Winnifred said.  “A.”
“You’re a fan,” the bald woman, said, propping herself up.
“Yes.”
“I’m waiting to see what she does.  What she puts out there.”
Winnifred nodded.
She looked out at the docks, aware that the investigator was watching her.
“Dreams died,” Winnifred said.  “Hopes and goals.”
“You have a dream still,” the gorilla on the ground said.  “Captain?”
She did, but she wondered if it was attainable, still.
There were obstacles mounting.
“Hey,” Hale said, scooting over a bit.  He bumped her arm.  “Which ones do you like?”
He looked out over the various ships on the busy main dock of Sherman station.
Now?
Back on the project, under the guise of fixing the solar panel farm, they’d worked out codes with Michal.
The onboards were in on it, and had minor runs of code that would take a very thorough audit to recognize.
While their tail was in a particular configuration, like an ‘S’ with a very small upper curl, the onboard would measure out their gaze, helping it to linger for a very specific measure of time.
All Winnifred had to do was match the approximate tail shape, and glance at the right parts of a ship for point-four-seven seconds exactly.
Satterfield or one of his colleagues that didn’t have an onboard would skim over her records, mark out those specific parts, and target them.
She knew where the weak points were, and which ships were expensive.
She could spend two weeks here, where there were so many ships she could glance at, write a list of weak points, and others would do the dirty work.
If there were attacks on various ships, then those attacks wouldn’t even necessarily be here.  But even if they did it here, it was a hard signal for an outsider to realize she’d given.
It would require someone with a very keen eye to be paying very careful attention to Winnifred, noticing any changes in her patterns, how she moved her eyes.
“Which one?” Hale asked, nudging her.
Right after that conversation?  While she’s watching?
She wondered if Hale was the type who, if pushed, pushed back harder.
“Honestly?” she asked.  “I’d want this one.”
She patted the side of the football.
“This?  It’s a mess.  Michal might give it to you, though.  If you’re a good member of the family,” Hale said.
Shut up, she thought. The heat of the thought startled her.
But he was being stupid.  That was the kind of thing people could read between the lines on.
Kathe spoke, “Hale.  You were team captain of the losing team.  You want to go get food for everyone?”
“Do all of us go?” Winnifred asked.
“No.  Hale and I can manage it.”
Winnifred relaxed a bit.  She wasn’t positive that Kathe was in her corner, but it felt like Kathe recognized Hale wasn’t far from saying something too obvious.
Worried, Winnifred still tried to relax, relying on Toby to ease her tension.  She reclined, wrapping her body and draping one arm around a protruding, rectangular intake vent.  Cuddling it.
She could sense that Hale was annoyed and upset.  She knew she probably wasn’t making friends like she should be, even in the context of pursuing her dream.
It didn’t matter.  She put on some of A’s singing, from practice lessons with Generation Colors, and had a portion of A’s ongoing activities take up a share of her vision, while she rested, trying to ignore the penetrating stare of the investigator.
“Put it on, Toby?” the gorilla sitting below Winnifred asked.
Toby put the music on through available speakers and sound systems.  Winnifred curled up more.
Better.
It wasn’t the time.
➨
She was startled awake.  Hale stood over her, hand on her face, his eyes wide.
It was night.  The same day she’d gone to the football, played the game.  They’d gone out after, but that had been so much in the way of people, hustle, and bustle, that she’d tuned out, going with the flow.
She’d gone to bed, and now she woke.  Her hands flexed, claws ready.
She met his eyes, wary, wondering what he’d do.  And then she looked through his eyes, saw the people communicating with him, and chased those threads down.
Fire.  Bombs.
There had been violence.  Then pushback.
Folk, worker, and others were outright rioting now.  Causing damage to places nowhere near the docks, even.
She closed her hands into fists.
This was the point he was meant to tell her she was needed.  That they were soldiers in the fight that was starting now.
He tilted his head slightly, eyes narrowing.
“Toby?” she asked.
[Access to the intelligence aspect of your IDLX-B onboard has been curtailed pending a concluded audit and investigation by an agent of the Exurseon cross-Belt Concern, and the Intelligence’s access to you and your onboard network has been similarly restricted.  You retain access to main channel, system, and essential aspects of the Belt Network, interpersonal messaging, and your own system and may request an outside, authorized intelligence to manage or address other concerns, using free-access terminals.]
It was a lot of words right after she’d woken up, faced with a young guy with an intense look in his eyes, fire, and violence.
But, to sum it up…
“She imprisoned Toby.”